.TH xphoon 1 "14 September 1991"
.SH NAME
xphoon - displays the PHase of the mOON on the root window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xphoon
.RB [ -b ]
.RB [ -t
.I interval
.RB [ -i ]]
.RB [ -display
.IR name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xphoon
sets the X root window to a picture of the moon in its current phase,
including the partial lighting of the dark side by reflected earthlight.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -b
Defeats the earthlight feature, forcing the dark side to be black.
.TP
.B -t
Have
.I xphoon
keep running and update the picture every
.I interval
minutes.
(Normally,
.I xphoon
just sets the root picture and exits.)
.TP
.B -i
Forks a background process and prints the process-id to stdout.
Useful if you want to make menu commands to refresh or kill
.IR xphoon .
.SH NOTES
The original motivation for this program was that xsetroot was
.B too slow.
Loading a full-screen bitmap took about 15 seconds.
We made a trivial program that had fullmoon.bitmap compiled in, and
it ran in less than a second.
(And incidentally, the executable was smaller than fullmoon.xbm.)
Then later we came up with the phase hacking, the earthlight, and the
auto-scaling.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR phoon (1),
.IR xsetroot (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Copyright (C) 1988,1991 by Jef Poskanzer <jef@acme.com> and
Craig Leres <leres@ee.lbl.gov>.  All rights reserved.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
The moon-phase computation is from "moontool.c" by John Walker.
